Memgraph in production guides (general and GraphRAG) (#1239)
memgraph/documentation: pages/memgraph-in-production.mdx

---
title: Memgraph in production  
description: Learn how to deploy Memgraph in production for your workload and consider all the advices directly from the Memgraph Team based on our multi-year experiences.
---

import { Callout } from 'nextra/components'
import {CommunityLinks} from '/components/social-card/CommunityLinks'

# Memgraph in production

> When deploying Memgraph in production, it is essential to consider a set of prerequisites to ensure optimal performance, 
> scalability, and resilience. This includes hardware considerations, the correct sizing of instances, configuring drivers, using
> appropriate flags when starting Memgraph, importing data, and connecting to external sources. The guidelines in this section will
> help you make informed decisions for your specific use case, ensuring that Memgraph performs effectively in your environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying Memgraph in production, it is essential to consider a set of prerequisites to ensure optimal **performance**, **scalability** and **resilience**. That includes decisions about hardware configurations and integration strategies. 

This guide is your starting point to production-readiness with Memgraph.

## ✅ What you'll need to consider

Before you dive into specific setups, it's important to think about:
- **Hardware requirements** and **instance sizing**
- **Driver configuration** 
- **Flags**  when starting Memgraph 
- **Data import** best practices
- Connecting to **external sources** 

These factors ensure Memgraph performs effectively in your environment, no matter the use case.
```

> ## How to use the Memgraph in production guides

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 📖 How to use these guides
```

> To get started, we recommend first reading the **General Suggestions** section, which outlines practices that are **agnostic to specific use cases**.
> These are foundational principles that apply broadly across most production setups. Each separate guide in the **"Memgraph in Production"**
> series focuses on a particular type of workload or deployment scenario. At the beginning of each guide, you’ll find information about
> **when that use case is a good fit for your needs**. The specific recommendations in those guides **override** anything written in the
> general suggestions when there's a conflict—so always defer to the targeted guide when applicable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start with the [General suggestions](/memgraph-in-production/general-suggestions). They cover **best practices** that apply to most production deployments, regardless of your workload type and are **agnostic to specific use cases**.
Each separate guide in the *Memgraph in Production* series focuses on a particular type of workload or deployment scenario. At the beginning of each guide, you’ll find information about:
- When that **use case** is a good fit for your needs. 
- Specific tailored **recommendations**

⚠️ Recommendations in those guides **override** anything written in the
general suggestions when there's a conflict, so always defer to the targeted guide when applicable.
```

## 📚 Available guides in the *Memgraph in production* series

> - [General Suggestions](/memgraph-in-production/general-suggestions)
> - [Memgraph in GraphRAG use cases](/memgraph-in-production/memgraph-ing-graphrag)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are the currently available guides to help you deploy Memgraph effectively:

### [General suggestions](/memgraph-in-production/general-suggestions)

A foundational guide covering universal best practices for any production deployment - recommended reading before anything else.

### [Memgraph in GraphRAG use cases](/memgraph-in-production/memgraph-in-graphrag)

Learn how to optimize Memgraph for Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) systems using graph data.
```
